1.I mean, I wouldn’t cancel your baby shower. I you could pack some snacks for the drive like nuts/ protein bars or shakes. You can probably eat what you want in moderation at your shower just try to get in some protein first and include fats and fibers if you can. It does suck cos you can’t just go crazy but the educator will likely tell you that if you have good control over your diet in your day to day routine it is okay to treat yourself
2.Don’t cancel it - I threw a baby shower years ago for someone with GD and it was fine. And definitely don’t make a decision till you meet with the educator!
3.My friends threw me a baby shower literally the week I was diagnosed …at a Cheesecake Factory. 😭 I had a salad and some grilled chicken. Pack your own snacks, you got this 👏
4.Don’t make any rash decisions right now. It’s manageable. You can control what’s served at your baby shower somewhat, right? Just make sure there is chicken and salad and maybe some keto sweets. You got this. Seriously.
5.I think canceling it would be such an extreme take. Eat what you know you can. Cheese and meats, charcuterie options. Keep desserts light or none.
6.I would wait a few days to cancel and to me the drive would be more of an issue than the GD! Plus I would insist they have something safe for you or bring your own food if you decide to go - but can the shower come to you? If it's a matter of driving without the right food, staying with people, etc., that does sound far and hard in general! It does take a while to get the hang of things. I think in a few days you may feel a little better once you see how your numbers are affected by what you're eating, but you still might not want to drive 5 hours! Also,I am well controlled and I still feel sad sometimes. But I have found luck with making sure I always eat protein and fat with carbs, and I'm not having sugar cravings so that's been a bit easier. I'm also on nighttime insulin and that really helped. And the idea is to eat carbs in an even stream, not no carb, so you will find with testing what you can handle. What I read here is that it seems really individual. I also have had a cheat meal or two when I went out and didn't test, but most of my numbers are fine and the insulin made that a lot easier.
7.My one hour result is same as yours i was required to do the grueling 3 hours and failed 2 hours but my 3 hours is a pass! It’s not a surprise for me as i was already prediabetic and have Pcos as well. For canceling your baby shower i honestly would not do it. Celebrate your pregnancy with your people who are close to you and make sure that there is plenty of low carb options for you. I get it GD is hard but the world doesn’t stop when you have it we must learn to adjust and adapt. Hang in there.
8.My baby shower is in like a week and half and I've been diagnosed for about a month. It can definitely be overwhelming. We've been discussing different things we can make for it, part of those things I've figured out don't spike me through experiment. I also made a post last week asking for suggestions and got a few good ones! I am also making a couple of deserts myself that I know I can have. I know it's distressing and makes you sad but take a breath doll 💜
9.Do what feels most comfortable for you…I get how you’re feeling because my husbands family is 3 hours away and I really didn’t want to go visit them at all during my pregnancy…it was definitely easier to stick to a routine when I’m at home…I was also put on insulin so I didn’t want to have to explain to people about my shot schedule and all that…I’m more of a homebody so I prefer to stay home but some people enjoy company and to talk to others about it so it comes down to what type of person you are and what makes you more happy
10.I had GD and threw a baby shower for a friend with GD. My doctor gave me a pass for the shower and while I don't know what my friends doc said, I did have GD friendly treats (even desserts!) available for her. I think you can totally still have a shower!!
11.I have GD and just had two baby showers. The only thing that spiked me at both was the cake. I was surprised that the tacos at one shower and the bbq at the other didn’t spike me at all. I’d say don’t cancel, eat in moderation, and walk around to mingle. And if you do spike, it’s okay, it’s just one day.
12.I personally didn’t schedule a baby shower because I thought it would be too depressing being around all the things I can’t enjoy. But there are some good food suggestions I’ve seen on this sub for baby showers so maybe search for ideas and if it won’t make you too sad, go for it!!
13.I was diagnosed with GDM one week before my baby shower. The doctor told me not to stress and that I am allowed to enjoy my pregnancy, so I shouldn’t be worried about the upcoming baby shower. The doctor will guide you in what you need to do, and you can make dietary choices that keep you within limits. My doc said one day of cake is ok, but best for you to go with what your doctor says :) Enjoy celebrating the baby with your friends and family!
14.Don’t cancel it, I think you’d regret that later. I had GD while pregnant and now have a. 2.5 yr old son. Looking back now I remember the wonderful shower I had, I even had cake ( and ate some cheese before and walked around after) and the GD and strict diet were such a small small part of it now. Once you get into a rhythm it won’t seem that hard, and thinking about it now, the extra monitoring and focusing on my diet only helped my baby in the long run.
15.I bring my own food with me to places that I can’t choose what I eat. I wouldn’t cancel, it will be a precious memory of people gathering around you to celebrate your motherhood and baby. You can bring little containers of snacks- Cheese, veggies, hummus, whole grain crackers, green apple slices, nut butters, nuts., avocado … And I usually bring with me some chicken bites I’ve cooked and then I can nibble on my own food and still be nourished and “participate” with others.
16.After my diagnosis I was very low emotionally for a good 2 weeks and then the diabetic nurse met with me. She snapped me out of it. This is not the end of the world. You did not do this to yourself - it is from your placenta. Causation is not correlation. Diabetes in your family is a risk factor, but your personal health was good and you cannot blame yourself. My diabetic nurse told me that you could line up 100 women of every shape and size and she’d never be able to guess who has GD and who doesn’t. Read the above suggestions for food to stick to at your shower, but also it is one day. If you happen to spike once in a while, your baby will be OK. Just try your best and hang in there!
17.Go and enjoy your baby shower. Not a doctor, but the advice I got was that it is higher sugar levels over time that are bad, not having a one off splurge at a special event, or even once a week. As long as your numbers are in range most of the time, there is no big issue. Think of it like drinking alcohol. Your blood alcohol will spike when you drink alcohol, but it's not like that for the other 22 hours of the day when you're not drinking, or the other 6 days of the week, and therefore not impacting your health. But if you're drunk all day every day then you'll have long term health impacts. Same with carbs and blood sugar levels. FYI I am not suggesting it's ok to drink while pregnant, just using an analogy haha
18.This is a perfect analogy!
19.Definitely don’t cancel girl! Go enjoy your shower! You can pack some easy things to eat with you in the car. This sub has tons of meal ideas and you can find a bunch online. The nutritionist you’ll meet with will likely provide you with some too. But if it’s all too overwhelming, just go enjoy that day and do the best you can and it’ll be ok! It’s ok to have a day of spikes. Go enjoy yourself!
20.Don’t cancel it! Make sure there’s some food served that you can enjoy. Relish in these happy moments and celebrate this sweet baby with your loved ones!
21.I had my baby shower with GD. by then, I knew what I could eat. I loaded up on a crap ton of protein and fiber at the party and then at the very end had one single cupcake. It was my only cheat of the pregnancy.
22.I was diagnosed with GDB, gave birth 4 months ago and had a baby shower. It’s going to be OK, girl! It’s not the end of the world. Stick to meats and veggies, stay away from sweets, carbs (specifically rice). Even if you feel you can’t “eat anything,” don’t deprive yourself. It’s ok to have a cheat day. If it’s too hard for you, there is always insulin. Don’t stress yourself out, just enjoy the pregnancy.
23.I had GD and just made sure to be very careful the days leading up to it, knowing I’d spike at the shower. My GD dietician told me they start getting concerned when you’re high at half your readings. Don’t cancel.
24.I wouldn't cancel -- the drive has nothing to do with it, just take some GD friendly snacks / food. Even if you don't change the menu, one silly day isn't going to do anything. I understand your anxiety though -- my mom passed from T2 so I felt like my world was ending with my diagnosis.
25.I had GDM at my baby shower. I made sure there was a veggie and dip platter, and ate a good breakfast beforehand. You can still have carbs/sugar - you just want fats and protein as well. Protein isn’t just meat - cheese, yoghurt and dairy products are good alternative sources. I tried to stick to things I knew I could eat but I did have a piece of the cake because I’d been looking forward to it for WEEKS. You’ll be okay!
26.Also if you have people baking / making treats - there are sugar substitutes. I use monk fruit powder but you can also use xylitol (I wasn’t comfortable bringing it into the house because it’s toxic to dogs)
27.Who is throwing it and would they be supportive of changing the menu? If so, talk to them and go!!! If not, explain your feelings and say you can’t at this time. During my GD, my friends and coworkers were the most incredibly supportive. They knew it was important to me to be as in control of the numbers as possible. Both sets (work and friends) separately threw me a shower with alllll GD-friendly food. My friends even made a keto-fruit cake (almond flour and stevia crust!) so I could still have baby shower “cake”. Family/ILs on the other hand….nah they would’ve been pretty unbendable and I would’ve deeply wanted to bow out. You can 100% still have a great baby shower with GD! It all depends on your support network…so reach out to them and see what they say!
28.Don’t cancel unless you never wanted the shower anyway and felt forced to agree to one. (That drive alone seems like a forced situation lol) Don’t regret a once in a life event because your numbers were bad with a concentrated dose of glucola. Highly unlikely that you will eat or drink that same amount in one sitting. Plus you will be armed with information on how to eat to minimize the spike. Enjoy the day if you have been looking forward to it, then keep the plans. There are lots of posts about snacks and meals that work for others with GD. I think I ate my weight in guacamole with veggies, almond chips, and some tortilla chips and then had cake. As others commented there are a lot of options. My shower hostess also graciously made a batch of almond flour cupcakes with an egg white maple syrup frosting that were so good and didn’t trigger a spike at all. I ate a couple for breakfast the next day. There are options and you have time to adjust the plan. But if you never wanted the shower then go ahead and cancel! Life is too short to take on that drive and social niceties to be miserable
29.Yeah, good spot. It’s not quite forced but it’s not what I’d do in an ideal world. I am less excited about the shower bc it is so far away but did feel pressure from my family for it! But also this is the last time I’ll see a lot of work colleagues. So I’m torn!
30.I had GD and I didn’t cancel. Why would you cancel? Just eat a protein filled meal. No biggy. Don’t eat the cake or have a bite or two. It’s not the end all be all. You’re gonna be okay ❤️
31.Please don’t cancel it. My OB said I can have a day like my baby shower and eat what I want - and it wouldn’t hurt me or the baby.
32.Don’t cancel it! I repeat: do not cancel!! You’re in the “oh shit” phase and it will pass. You have two weeks to decide how you want to go about eating at the shower. You can stick with the charcuterie and have no spike at all. You can pre-load a lot of protein and still have a cupcake, hoping for the best. I’ve also seen women who decided it’s only one meal, one spike is ok. I personally wouldn’t have like 3 cup cakes but also please know that one meal will not harm baby. It’s the continual fluctuations that might. Get a game plan that you feel good about and enjoy your day!! You got this!!
33.I’m postpartum now but definitely don’t cancel your shower. I had mine and my dietician said one day of whatever I wanted was fine, specifically at a baby shower. I ate what I wanted but also made sure to eat a lot of protein/cheese and I was completely fine. My mom also made some keto cheesecake bites and I ate a lot of those and actually had great numbers.
34.I got diagnosed with similar numbers to you right before my shower which was also 6 hours away. My consultants told me to enjoy my shower and eat what I wanted- if you're generally controlling your numbers one spike isn't going to do much. You'll also be able to eat more than you think right now if you balance it with protein and veggies! Allow yourself to be celebrated. You deserve it!
35.Here are some GD friendly things you can serve: - cheese board / charcuterie board - mezze board: tzatiki, hummus, cucumbers, pita chips (within reason) - giant caesar / greek salad - bbq --> just eat the meats and measure out sides (1/2 cup of mac and cheese or whatever carb side there is works for me usually) - homemade cake, less processed / might not spike as bad - Pepperoni Pizza (I could do 1 thin slices w/ a protein shake) For my baby shower, my work catered greek food (gyro, rice, tzatiki, salad). I measured out my rice and was fine at my 1 hour. I did indulge in cake , but a coworker made it and used whipped frosting instead of buttercream and although I did spike at 1 hour, I was fine at 2 hour
36.Some fast food options for the road that worked well for me: Noodles and co (lower carb options especially, but I could do the pad Thai small) Burger (skip the fries) Salad places Pizza (don't have too much but it's a surprisingly balanced food)
37.I remember I cried for three days straight when I was diagnosed. I was definitely dramatic, but it is really stressful and surprising when it happens to you after you didn’t think it would. I also blame it on the hormones lol. That being said I highly recommend going to your baby shower. Mine was one of the happiest days of my life. It’s really special to be surrounded by so many people who are supporting you and excited about this life you’re bringing into the world. Honestly, you’re going to be so wrapped up and talking to people and opening gifts that you may not even have time to eat. So pack some snacks that you know you can eat and just save them for the ride home.
38.I got on a plane and took a pre-scheduled trip to the mountains three days after my diagnosis. I was so stressed about it, but it was fine. Don’t cancel your shower! Worst case scenario- just bring some safe foods. Or plan on there being some elevated numbers that day. It’s going to be ok ❤️
39.Don’t cancel It! Be prepared with knowledge on GD and you will have an amazing day.
40.I definitely wouldn’t cancel. Sure he’ll be a bit more of a hassle but you can totally pack your snacks and still have a good time!
41.I wouldn't cancel the shower - if anything, maybe seeing so many familiar faces will help cheer you up! Can you tell them about your GDM and have a special meal prepared? They're planning that day to celebrate you and baby, I know it's a lot to take in at the moment but in the long run, you and baby deserve to be celebrated.
42.Have a protein packed lunch / breakfast beforehand and enjoy your baby shower , have a slice of cake and let loose lol . One meal is not the end all be all and pregnancy is already hard as is, you both deserve to be celebrated!
43.Try to pair any sweets or carbs with protein and fiber.
44.I just had my baby shower this past weekend and have GD. It was a 14 hour drive, but I packed healthy snacks (nuts, cottage cheese, Greek yogurt, protein shakes, etc) and took a break every 2.5-3 hours to stretch and use the bathroom.
45.Also, my diabetic educator said it’s all about balance. A few elevated numbers are not going to hurt you or your baby. They will make sure >50% of the numbers are in the target range but know that we’re human and finding what spikes us is also learning curve. I had Christmas dinner, my husband’s birthday, and NYE all while having GD. You can do it!
46.Do what you need to do to be comfortable, but I'll say this: It's incredibly common to have a strong emotional response to this diagnosis, so many of us here entered the sub with a half panicked "just diagnosed" post. I myself did exactly that! But eventually it just became a frustrating but standard part of my life for the duration of my pregnancy and I did my best to not let it keep me from the special experiences of my pregnancy that I'm so happy I still got to have. Watching people eat sweets at my baby shower sucked, but I had such a great and memorable time and I'm happy GD didn't take experience away from me. Also: Cheese is love cheese is life. Dunno where/who is hosting your shower but perhaps you can get a nice cheese plate situation going?
47.Don't cancel it! It's ok to be upset since it's frustrating and difficult to deal with. But your shower can still be special. Talk to your OB or dietician about what you can eat at the shower. I asked my sister to do a charcuterie board so I could eat proteins like meat and cheese. I ate a few mini quiches, some veggies, etc. My dietician told me that I could try to drink a protein shake right before eating cake and I was able to enjoy a mini bundt cake without spiking my glucose. They may also tell you one cheat meal is OK or if you're on meds if you're ok to have one meal outside their dietary recommendations. I even took some cake home and was able to enjoy it in small portions after eating protein laden meals. You should be able to get guidance on what you can or can't do, and if it's ok to cheat on the diet one time.
48.I hat mine and snacked through the event and didn't track. I would have been sad and I Insight if I didn't get to have my shower. One meal every now and then isn't going to do much
49.Once you come to terms with your diagnosis, you would really regret cancelling your shower. You just have to be mindful of what you eat. I’m sure there’s something you can eat there, or bring something. But as my diabetic dietician told me once, diabetes doesn’t mean that you can never have a piece of chocolate cake. It means if you want to, you need to substitute the carbs in your meal so you can have the piece of cake. Once you talk to your doctor about a plan of action and a dietician, you’ll feel much better. Don’t cancel your baby shower.
50.I wouldn’t cancel.. my ob just said to give myself more insulin, and I was fine 🙂
51.Thank you so much to everyone who responded—especially for the supportive words! I’m going to heed most of the advice and not cancel (at least for now)! Some more context: I have done this five hour trip (ten hour around trip) for 1-3 times a month for the last two years, since my husband is in one city and my job (ending and moving to another post baby!) is in a different one. The commute was hard on me pre pregnancy and at this point it’s very uncomfortable. Even with two sets of compression socks and a break, my body feels pretty bad by the end and do it two days in a row is going to be extra rough. I am also turning in my dissertation before the baby is born while doing my job remotely so it is a period of stress!! The second thing is that I used to have an eating disorder—I’ve been one recovery and so much happier for ten years! But the idea of this is extra hard because of that past. Plus choosing food in front of people (some of whom will know) makes it extra hard. But I’m going to see how I do managing my blood sugar this week and I’ve already talked to the host about getting some Greek food! We were going to do pastries. Thank you so much for all responding again. It is great to hear about your baby showers during GF.
52.Just jumping in to say: You are an absolute rockstar for juggling your job, your dissertation and your pregnancy on top of a crazy commute. I know firsthand how upsetting a GDM diagnosis can be, but I feel like you've proven you can do ANYTHING. I hope you feel very celebrated at your shower!
53.What is M IN THE GD?
54.Gestational diabetes mellitus! There is also gestational diabetes insipidus.
55.Don’t freak out. It’s a marathon, not a sprint. Having some sweets one day is not going to throw everything off or harm your baby.
56.Can you take a home test? Those drinks can cause false positives. You can test it at home with the fresh test. In think you are just really sensative and upset right now. In totally get it as I failed my 1 hr test last time, got so depressed, but did the 2 week testing and passed that. Now in only week so the 2 will testing. So please don't cancel your shower. You'll be more sad to miss out on more. And people can make accommodating for you! But really. Do some more trial testing first to be sure!
57.Friendly reminder that weight and GD aren’t connected :)
58.it seems overwhelming right now but I promise it will be okay. I wouldn’t cancel! Just take some snacks you know you can safely eat!
59.I say this out of love lol…but yes that’s crazy. Go enjoy your shower.
60.Just have a charcuterie board and eat off of that.
61.I wouldn’t cancel! I totally get feeling sad and guilty, but know none of this is your fault. My diabetes education class was super helpful for me and made me realize I could still have things I enjoyed in moderation. Maybe you can suggest or bring your own snacks like a cheese tray or a variety of nuts? Even if you were to have a treat there’s nothing wrong with that! It’s when you consistently have treats and don’t try to make any changes to your diet is where you get issues. I think once you meet with your dietician tomorrow you’ll hopefully feel better about all this and feel less overwhelmed. :)
62.I wouldn't cancel it. But I would ask who ever is hosting to have some GD friendly things for you to eat Most protein, dairy and veggies you'll be able to eat. Finger pricking in the car will be annoying but you'll become a pro at it.
63.Don’t cancel your shower- when I went through the education class after my diagnosis they specifically mentioned to let your self have a treat on ‘special occasion’ days… and your baby shower is one of those days! Just put a little note next to that day when you do your testing!
